
### Docker 

| Commands | Descriptions |
|----------|:-------------:|
| `docker create`	 | creates a container but does not start it.|
| `docker image ls`	 | List all images that are locally stored with the Docker Engine.|
| `docker container run`	 | Creates and starts a container in one operation.|
| `docker rm`	 | Deletes a container.|
| `docker update`	 | Updates a container's resource limits.|
---

### Docker Run Commands
Commands	Descriptions
docker run -d -p 3000:80 laravel-php:7.3 -d	To run the container in the background process. “-p 3000:80” expose port 3000 externally and map to port 80. “laravel-php:7.3” container name
docker stop **laravel-php:7.3**	Stop a running container through SIGTERM
docker kill **laravel-php:7.3**	Stop a running container through SIGKILL
docker rm -f $(docker ps -aq)	Delete all running and stopped containers
docker ps	List the running containers
docker ps –a	To see all the running and stopped containers
docker exec -it **web** **bash**	Create a new bash process inside the container and connectit to the terminal
docker logs --tail 100 web	Print the last 100 lines of a container’s logs
docker events	Get Events

### Docker Build Commands
Commands	Descriptions
docker build -t **laravel-php:7.3**	Build an image from the Dockerfile in the current directory and tag the image
docker images	List all images that are locally stored with the Docker Engine
docker rmi **laravel-php:7.3**	Delete an image from the local image store


### Docker Deploy Commands

| Commands | Descriptions |
|----------|:-------------:|
| `docker login`	 | Log in to a Docker Hub registry.|
| `docker pull image-name`	 | Pull an image from registry.|
| `docker tag image-name`	 | Retag a local image with a new image name and tag.|
| `docker push image-name`	 | Push image to docker registry.|
---

### Docker Commands Basic Structure

`Image` — A snapshot file of a container. Create containers by pulling and running Docker Images.
`Docker Hub / Registry*` — A public cloud-based registry service for developers to share their code on.

[options] — Add options to your Docker commands to change the results. Each command has multiple options available.
[command] — Enter the parameters for the Docker command, this could be a filename or container ID.
[arg] — Set additional argument variables.
[env] — Use to configure environment variables.
[init] — Initialize a swarm (by default, Docker will designate chosen machine as manager node).
[ca] — Show root Certificate Authority (auto-generated by init command).
[join] — Join a swarm as a worker/manager node.
[join-token] — Manage join tokens—define worker or manager accordingly.
[leave] — When implemented on a worker, the command prompts the node to leave the swarm.
[–force] — When implemented on a manager, the command forces the node to leave the swarm.
[tag] — The tag parameter is often part of the image name, but as your swarm develops you can adjust the tag without changing the base image name.
[unlock] — Unlock swarm manager with a user-own unlock key.
[unlock-key] — Manage the unlock key, useful to unlock a manager node.
[update] — Update the swarm.

### Starting & Stopping Containers
Starting: `docker start nginx`

Stopping: `docker stop nginx`

Restarting: `docker restart nginx`

Pausing: `docker pause nginx`

Unpausing: `docker unpause nginx`

Blocking a Container: `docker wait nginx`

Sending a SIGKILL: `docker kill nginx`

Connecting to an Existing Container: `docker attach nginx`

---
### Getting Information about Containers

Running Containers: docker ps / docker ps -a

Container Logs: docker logs infinite

Inspecting Containers: docker inspect infinite / docker inspect --format '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}' $(docker ps -q)

Containers Events: docker events infinite

Public Ports: docker port infinite

Running Processes: docker top infinite

Container Resource Usage: docker stats infinite

Inspecting changes to files or directories on a container’s filesystem: docker diff infinite